
    This is where I am going to write about how this thing works. 
I am only focusing on the contents of calender-related-functions.c and it's header file and some of common.h
The other files are just the code that makes use of this important file to make the software.
You can also think of calender-related-functions as an API and you could change some stuff or 
atleast understand how and why this works and use it in your own applications. 

This project was fun and doesn't require any additional knowledge than some basic C knowledge.

So MONTH and WEEKDAY types are obvious from the header file itself. 
YEAR Was just a typedef and for readability. I could have done this with days... I will do that later. 

LOGIC:
------
First of all is to understand the logic. 

DATE_ID:
-------
        We somehow have to make a unique value from every date . That's where GetDateID function comes.
It's nothing too complex. DateID is just a number representing how many days after 1-1-0000 to 
the given dat DD-MM-YYYY. That's it ! My way of calculating might be ugly. Do your own way. 
        That means 1-1-0000 would have an ID 1. We only ocnsider dates greater than 1-1-0000 in this project.
Date 0-0-0000 is not logical.

WEEKDAY AND WEEK_ORDER:
-----------------------
It is world knowledge that the weekdays go in a loop . I mean Sun -> Mon -> Tue -> ... -> Sat and back to 
Sun and this cycle goes on . So any date must be one of these. 
        Now , if we have a reference date ( a date whose true weekday is already known , by unknown means )
we could calculate it's DateID. We know any number divided by 7 gives a remainder between 0 - 6 and all weekdays 
can also be represented with the same range, ie. 0-6. Now you might have got the idea. 
        Also , a weekday repeats after 6 days and on the 7th day, we can form a relation with "division with 7".
On more thinking , we find all dates whose (DateID % 7) are equal have the same weekday. 
        We can use this idea to form an array called WeekdayOrder whose index represents (DateID % 7) 
and value represent the Weekday (Sun, Mon, Tue, ...). from the refernce, we can find the value for one index.
Just using this single value, we can fill in the rest and complete the array. 
        Now, if we have any date, we can get it's weekday form WeekdayOrder[DateID % 7]

        Now, our universe or timeline doesn't change and each timeline has a fixed WeekdayOrder. 
We know 01 Jan 2000 was a saturday in our timeline.  On calculation, we get our WeekdayOrder to be 
[ Thu, Fri, Sat, Sun, Mon, Tue, Wed ].
        This WeekdayOrder might be different for another timeline where 01 Jan 2000 was not a Saturday.
Try calculating such an order for practice. (Take 01-01-2000 to be a Wednesday).
        
        Isn't this cool !!

Now, the concept of WeekdayOrder should be clear.


HOW IS A MONTH REPRESENTED AND STORED ?
----------------------------------------
        A month have atmost 31 days. A calender usually represents a month with 7 columns for 7 weekdays. 
So We can use an array of size of a multiple of 7 close to 31 , which is 35 . 
Now , this array[0] represents 1st sunday or any weekday that you wih to be the first column. 

        First find the weekday of 1st day of the month and fill that index of the array as 1. Now just 
continue till the last day of the month (ie. 31 for Jan, 28 feb, 30 for April, etc)
        Note to include the exception of leap years where Feb has 29 days. 
        

CONCLUSION:
-----------
This was a fun project. I had to do a lot of thinking. No AI was used in this except for the strToLower() , 
which I was lazy to build. But that's okay because I Feel so great and satisfied now. 

Please tell any suggestions or improvements or new ideas and methods if you have any .
Thank you for trying this program and reading this text. 

Have a nice Day !



